.TH ASCIINEMA2VIDEO 1 "February 2026" "asciinema2video 1.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asciinema2video \- convert asciinema recordings to video
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asciinema2video
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.B \-i
\fIINPUT\fR
[\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asciinema2video
converts asciinema terminal recordings (.cast files) to video formats
including MP4, GIF, WebP, WebM, and MOV.
.PP
Features include customizable color themes, rounded corners, borders,
transparent backgrounds, and custom fonts.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Input/Output Options"
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input =\fIFILE\fR
Input .cast file (required).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIFILE\fR
Output file. Supported formats: mp4, gif, webp, webm, mov.
Default: input filename with .mp4 extension.
.SS "Rendering Options"
.TP
.BR \-\-fps =\fINUM\fR
Frames per second. Default: 10.
.TP
.BR \-\-font\-size =\fIPIXELS\fR
Font size in pixels. Default: 14.
.TP
.BR \-\-font =\fIPATH\fR
Path to custom TTF font file. Default: Go Mono.
.TP
.BR \-\-padding =\fIPIXELS\fR
Padding around terminal content. Default: 16.
.TP
.BR \-\-cols =\fINUM\fR
Override terminal width. Default: from cast file.
.TP
.BR \-\-rows =\fINUM\fR
Override terminal height. Default: from cast file.
.SS "Theme Options"
.TP
.BR \-\-theme =\fINAME\fR
Color theme name. Available: default, monokai, dracula, solarized-dark, nord, gruvbox.
Default: default.
.TP
.BR \-\-theme\-file =\fIPATH\fR
Path to custom theme JSON file.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-themes
List available built-in themes and exit.
.SS "Border Options"
.TP
.BR \-\-border
Enable border around terminal.
.TP
.BR \-\-border\-width =\fIPIXELS\fR
Border width in pixels. Default: 2.
.TP
.BR \-\-border\-color =\fIHEX\fR
Border color in hex format. Default: #646464.
.TP
.BR \-\-border\-radius =\fIPIXELS\fR
Border radius for rounded corners. Default: 0.
.SS "Background Options"
.TP
.BR \-\-outer\-bg =\fIHEX\fR
Outer background color (visible with rounded corners). Default: #000000.
.TP
.BR \-\-transparent
Enable transparent background. Supported for webm and mov formats.
.SS "Video Options"
.TP
.BR \-\-codec =\fINAME\fR
Video codec for MP4 output. Available: h264, h265. Default: h264.
.SS "Other Options"
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress output messages.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help message and exit.
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.TP
.B MP4
H.264 or H.265 encoded video. Most compatible format. Use \\-\\-codec to select.
.TP
.B GIF
Animated GIF. Good for documentation, but large file sizes.
.TP
.B WebP
Animated WebP. Smaller than GIF, good for web.
.TP
.B WebM
VP9 encoded video. Supports transparency with \-\-transparent flag.
.TP
.B MOV
ProRes 4444 encoded video. Supports alpha channel with \-\-transparent flag.
Suitable for professional video editing.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Convert to MP4:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.mp4
.fi
.RE
.PP
Convert to GIF:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.gif
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use Dracula theme with rounded corners:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.mp4 \\
    --theme dracula --border --border-radius 12
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create transparent WebM for overlays:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.webm \\
    --transparent --border --border-radius 20
.fi
.RE
.PP
High-quality video for editing:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.mov \\
    --transparent --fps 30 --font-size 18
.fi
.RE
.PP
Custom theme and font:
.RS
.nf
asciinema2video -i demo.cast -o demo.mp4 \\
    --theme-file my-theme.json \\
    --font /path/to/JetBrainsMono.ttf \\
    --font-size 16
.fi
.RE
.SH CUSTOM THEME FILE
.PP
Create a JSON file with the following structure:
.RS
.nf
{
  "name": "my-theme",
  "foreground": "#e0e0e0",
  "background": "#1e1e1e",
  "colors": [
    "#000000", "#ff0000", "#00ff00", "#ffff00",
    "#0000ff", "#ff00ff", "#00ffff", "#ffffff",
    "#808080", "#ff8080", "#80ff80", "#ffff80",
    "#8080ff", "#ff80ff", "#80ffff", "#ffffff"
  ]
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
The colors array contains 16 ANSI colors (standard and bright variants).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.B ffmpeg
must be installed and available in PATH.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/asciinema2video/themes/
User custom themes directory (optional).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR asciinema (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/spagu/asciinema2video/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by spagu.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 spagu. License BSD-3-Clause.
